.\" groff -man -Tascii pward.man
.\" groff -man -Tascii pward.man | col -b
.TH PWARD 1 "July 2010" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
pward \- check if a set of processes stays alive
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pward
[
.I OPTION
] ... [
.I
PID
] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pward
observes a set of processes given at the command-line. By default,
pward stops when all these processes have died.
Optionally, it stops when a configurable number of processes has died,
or when less than a number of processes is still running.
It can be configured to execute a command before stopping.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-running\fR=n
stop monitoring when no more than n processes are still running (default 0)
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-stopped\fR=n
stop monitoring when at least n processes have stopped (default 1)
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-exec\fR=\fIcommand\fR
Execute \fIcommand\fR after the treshold is met, and before pward is stopped.
The command  is executed in the starting directory.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
summarize monitored processes at startup.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-batch\fR
don't perform sanity checks at input. This can be useful when invoked from a script.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
print a help message at startup.
.TP
\fB[PID]\fR
space separated list of process-ids to be monitored. 

.SH FILES
.TP 
/proc
location of the proc file system

.SH ENVIRONMENT

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr:

command failed
.RS
the command in the -exec option failed to execute.
.RE

cannot access /proc.
.RS
pward has no access to the proc filesystem.
.RE

.SH BUGS
pward checks processes by polling the proc-table. 
This is portable, but an implementation with modern kernel features would be more efficient.

pward is only tested on linux (32/64 bits).

pward is similar to the bash builtin \fIwait\fR. Whilst \fIwait\fR  waits for child-processes of the running bash,
pward can wait for every process on the system. This comes
at a performance cost.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B pward `pgrep emerge` -v -i10 -e"shutdown -h +10"

Shuts down the machine 10 minutes after emerge finished.
Some info about the monitored processes is dumped to the console at startup.
The polling interval is set to 10 seconds.
The user needs the rights to shutdown the machine for this to work.

.SH AUTHOR
Dirk Moermans <dirkmoermans @ gmail.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pgrep (1),
.BR pkill (1),
.BR top (1)
